.TH RTPARITYD.CONF 5 "April 2026" "rtparityd 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
rtparityd.conf \- rtparityd configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtparityd.conf\fR is the configuration file for the rtparityd storage engine.
It is read from \fB/etc/rtparityd/config.yaml\fR by default.

The configuration uses YAML format with the following sections.

.SH CONFIGURATION SECTIONS

.SS pool
Pool-level settings.
.TP
.B name
Pool name (string, default: demo)
.TP
.B metadata_path
Path to binary metadata snapshot (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/metadata.bin)
.TP
.B journal_path
Path to binary journal (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/journal.bin)

.SS network
Network/socket settings.
.TP
.B socket_path
Unix socket path (default: /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock)
.TP
.B socket_permissions
Socket permissions as string (default: "0660")

.SS runtime
Runtime directory settings.
.TP
.B data_directory
Data directory for metadata and journal (default: /var/lib/rtparityd)
.TP
.B run_directory
Runtime directory for socket and pid (default: /var/run/rtparityd)
.TP
.B log_level
Log level: debug, info, warn, error (default: info)

.SS storage
Storage engine settings.
.TP
.B default_extent_size
Default extent size in bytes (default: 1048576 = 1 MiB)
.TP
.B default_parity_groups
Default number of data disks per parity group (default: 8)
.TP
.B compression_default
Default compression algorithm: zstd, lz4, snappy, gzip, xz, or empty for none (default: "")

.SS maintenance
Background maintenance settings.
.TP
.B scrub_enabled
Enable automatic scrub (boolean, default: false)
.TP
.B scrub_interval_hours
Scrub interval in hours (default: 168 = weekly)
.TP
.B scrub_repair
Auto-repair during scrub (boolean, default: true)
.TP
.B rebuild_on_startup
Rebuild missing extents on startup (boolean, default: false)

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
pool:
  name: demo
  metadata_path: /var/lib/rtparityd/metadata.bin
  journal_path: /var/lib/rtparityd/journal.bin

network:
  socket_path: /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock
  socket_permissions: "0660"

runtime:
  data_directory: /var/lib/rtparityd
  run_directory: /var/run/rtparityd
  log_level: info

storage:
  default_extent_size: 1048576
  default_parity_groups: 8
  compression_default: ""

maintenance:
  scrub_enabled: false
  scrub_interval_hours: 168
  scrub_repair: true
  rebuild_on_startup: false
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/rtparityd/config.yaml
Default configuration file location.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rtparityd (8),
.BR rtparityd.service (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the rtparityd project.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License version 2