.TH RTPARITYCTL 1 "April 2026" "rtparityd 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
rtparityctl \- CLI client for rtparityd daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtparityctl
[\-s \fISOCKET\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtparityctl\fR is a command-line client that communicates with the rtparityd
daemon via a Unix domain socket. It sends JSON commands and displays the
responses.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s " SOCKET"
Path to the Unix socket (default: /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock)
Can also be set via \fBRTPARITYD_SOCKET\fR environment variable.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B health
Display pool health status.

.TP
.B metrics
Display operation counters and latency histograms.

.TP
.B status
Display full pool status.

.TP
.BI write " PATH DATA"
Write data to a path.
.RS
.TP
.I PATH
Logical file path
.TP
.I DATA
Data to write (will be base64 encoded)
.RE

.TP
.BI read " PATH"
Read data from a path.

.TP
.B scrub [\-\-repair]
Run integrity check. Use \-\-repair to auto-repair corrupted extents.

.TP
.BI rebuild " DISK"
Rebuild extents from a specific disk.

.TP
.B rebuild\-all
Rebuild all disks with missing extents.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RTPARITYD_SOCKET
Override default socket path.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Check health
rtparityctl health

# Write a file
rtparityctl write /shares/data/file.bin "Hello World"

# Read a file
rtparityctl read /shares/data/file.bin

# Scrub with auto-repair
rtparityctl scrub --repair

# Rebuild disk
rtparityctl rebuild disk-01
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rtparityd (8),
.BR rtpctl (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the rtparityd project.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License version 2