.TH RTPCTL 1 "April 2026" "rtparityd 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
rtpctl \- CLI tool for rtparityd storage engine

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtpctl
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtpctl\fR is a command-line tool for testing, debugging, and managing the
rtparityd storage engine. Unlike rtparityctl which communicates with a running
daemon, rtpctl directly accesses the journal and metadata files.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS Demo Commands
.TP
.B allocate-demo
Allocate sample extents to demonstrate extent allocation.
.TP
.B write-demo
Execute a full journaled write transaction with synthetic data.
.TP
.B read-demo
Verify and self-heal a stored file.
.TP
.B scrub-demo
Scrub metadata snapshot for corruption with optional repair.
.TP
.B rebuild-demo
Rebuild a data disk from parity.
.TP
.B rebuild-all-demo
Rebuild all data disks with missing extents.
.TP
.B check-invariants
Verify storage invariants (I1-I15).

.SS Simulation Commands
.TP
.BI simulate " [OPTIONS]"
Simulate parity and recovery testing.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-disks N
Number of disks (default: 3)
.TP
.B \-extents N
Number of extents per parity group (default: 8)
.TP
.B \-extent-bytes N
Extent size in bytes (default: 4096)
.TP
.B \-corrupt-disk N
Corrupt a specific disk
.TP
.B \-corrupt-extent N
Corrupt a specific extent
.RE

.SS FUSE Mount
.TP
.B mount
Mount pool as FUSE filesystem.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-mountpoint PATH
FUSE mount point (required)
.TP
.B \-metadata-path PATH
Metadata snapshot path
.TP
.B \-journal-path PATH
Journal path
.TP
.B \-pool-name NAME
Pool name
.RE

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-metadata\-path " PATH"
Metadata snapshot path (default: /tmp/rtparityd-metadata.bin)
.TP
.BI \-journal\-path " PATH"
Journal path (default: /tmp/rtparityd-journal.bin)
.TP
.BI \-pool\-name " NAME"
Pool name (default: demo)

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Run allocation demo
rtpctl allocate-demo

# Write demo file
rtpctl write-demo

# Read and verify
rtpctl read-demo

# Mount as filesystem
rtpctl mount -mountpoint /mnt/pool

# Run simulation
rtpctl simulate -disks 4 -extents 8

# Check invariants
rtpctl check-invariants -metadata-path /var/lib/rtparityd/metadata.bin
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rtparityd (8),
.BR rtparityctl (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the rtparityd project.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License version 2