.TH RTPARITYD.SERVICE 8 "April 2026" "rtparityd 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
rtparityd.service \- systemd service unit for rtparityd storage engine

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/systemd/system/rtparityd.service

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtparityd.service\fR is a systemd unit file that starts the rtparityd
storage engine daemon.

The service runs as root by default and listens on the Unix socket at
/var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock for JSON-based command requests.

.SH OPTIONS
The service is configured with the following command-line arguments:

.B \-socket
Path to Unix socket (default: /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock)

.B \-metadata-path
Path to binary metadata snapshot (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/metadata.bin)

.B \-journal-path
Path to binary journal (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/journal.bin)

.B \-pool-name
Pool name (default: demo)

.SH SECURITY
The service includes the following security hardening options:

.TP
.B NoNewPrivileges=true
Prevents privilege escalation.

.TP
.B PrivateTmp=true
Uses private /tmp.

.TP
.B ProtectSystem=strict
Read-only system directories.

.TP
.B ProtectHome=true
Hides home directories.

.TP
.B ReadWritePaths
Allows write access to /var/lib/rtparityd and /var/run/rtparityd only.

.TP
.B MemoryMax=1G
Limits memory usage to 1GB.

.SH USAGE
.TP
Start the service:
.B systemctl start rtparityd

.TP
Stop the service:
.B systemctl stop rtparityd

.TP
Enable on boot:
.B systemctl enable rtparityd

.TP
Check status:
.B systemctl status rtparityd

.TP
View logs:
.B journalctl -u rtparityd

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/bin/rtparityd
Daemon binary
.TP
.B /var/lib/rtparityd/
Data directory
.TP
.B /var/run/rtparityd/
Runtime directory
.TP
.B /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock
Control socket

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rtparityd (8),
.BR rtparityd.conf (5),
.BR rtparityctl (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the rtparityd project.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License version 2