.TH RTPARITYD 8 "April 2026" "rtparityd 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
rtparityd \- Linux storage engine with real-time parity protection

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtparityd
[\-socket \fIPATH\fR]
[\-metadata\-path \fIPATH\fR]
[\-journal\-path \fIPATH\fR]
[\-pool\-name \fINAME\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtparityd\fR is a Linux storage engine that provides real-time XOR parity
protection for extents written to disk. It maintains a crash-safe binary
journal and performs automatic recovery on startup.

\fBrtparityd\fR does not expose an HTTP API. Instead, it listens on a Unix
domain socket for JSON-based command requests.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-socket " PATH"
Unix socket path for control interface (default: /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock)
.TP
.BI \-metadata\-path " PATH"
Binary metadata snapshot path (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/metadata.bin)
.TP
.BI \-journal\-path " PATH"
Binary journal path (default: /var/lib/rtparityd/journal.bin)
.TP
.BI \-pool\-name " NAME"
Pool name (default: demo)

.SH SOCKET PROTOCOL
The daemon accepts JSON commands over the Unix socket. Each command has the
format:

.nf
{"id": "1", "op": "OPERATION", "params": {...}}
.fi

.SS Operations
.TP
.B health
Returns pool health status including alert level and uptime.
.TP
.B metrics
Returns operation counters and latency histograms.
.TP
.B status
Returns full pool status including metadata, journal state, and disks.
.TP
.B write
Writes a file. Params: path, payload (base64), synthetic (bool).
.TP
.B read
Reads a file. Params: path.
.TP
.B scrub
Runs integrity check. Params: repair (bool).
.TP
.B rebuild
Rebuilds extents from a disk. Params: disk (string).
.TP
.B rebuild\-all
Rebuilds all disks with missing extents.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/lib/rtparityd/
Data directory for metadata and journal files.
.TP
.B /var/run/rtparityd/
Runtime directory for socket and pid file.
.TP
.B /var/run/rtparityd/rtparityd.sock
Unix socket for control interface.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid arguments, socket failure, etc.)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rtpctl (1),
.BR rtparityctl (1),
.BR rtparityd.service (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the rtparityd project.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License version 2